= FiveRuns Dash recipe for DataMapper

Provides a Ruby API to push metrics from applications using DataMapper to the FiveRuns Dash service, http://dash.fiveruns.com, currently in beta.

You'll need a Dash account before using this library.

== Installation

This library is released as a gem from the official repository at http://github.com/fiveruns/dash-datamapper

  sudo gem install fiveruns-dash-datamapper --source http://gems.github.com
  
== Configuration

Metrics in this recipe require a 'total_time' option be provided when the recipe is added; this option should indicate the metric to use when calculating % of utilization: 

* For web applications, this is probably the total time of a request (ie, request_time)
* For daemons, this is likely a processing cycle (eg, proc_time)

Known issue: The metric name is not currently namespaced by recipe URL; although collision is unlikely, if your 'total_time' setting is for a metric that's present in more than one recipe, you may encounter problems.

Note: The metric selected must be `marked', ie:

  recipe.time :response_time, :method => 'Request#dispatch_action',
                              :mark => true

Example:

  other_recipe.add_recipe :datamapper,
                          :url => 'http://dash.fiveruns.com',
                          :total_time => 'response_time'

== Usage

See the Dash Ruby support pages http://support.fiveruns.com/faqs/dash/ruby for more information on how to use this library. 

== Authors

The FiveRuns Development Team & Dash community

== Dependencies

* The fiveruns-dash-ruby gem (see http://github.com/fiveruns/dash-ruby)
* The json gem (as a dependency for fiveruns-dash-ruby)

== Platforms

This library has only been tested on OSX and Linux.  See the notes for fiveruns-dash-ruby for more information: http://github.com/fiveruns/dash-ruby

== Contributing

As an open source project, we welcome community contributions!

The best way to contribute is by sending pull requests via GitHub.  The official repository for this project is:

  http://github.com/fiveruns/dash-datamapper

== Support

Please join the dash-users Google group, http://groups.google.com/group/dash-users

You can also contact us via Twitter, Campfire, or email; see the main help page, http://support.fiveruns.com, for details.

== License

  # (The FiveRuns License)
  #
  # Copyright (c) 2006-2008 FiveRuns Corporation
  # 
  # Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
  # a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
  # 'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
  # without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
  # distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
  # permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
  # the following conditions:
  # 
  # The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
  # included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
  # 
  # THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
  # EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
  # MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
  # IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
  # CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
  # TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
  # SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.